# ConfigMap support for the Netscaler ingress controller

The ConfigMap API resource holds key-value pairs of configuration data that can be consumed in pods or to store configuration data for system components such as controllers.

ConfigMaps allow you to separate your configurations from your pods and make your workloads portable. Using ConfigMaps, you can easily change and manage your workload configurations and reduce the need to hardcode configuration data to pod specifications.

The Netscaler ingress controller supports the configuration command line arguments, and environment variables mentioned in [deploying the Netscaler ingress controller](https://github.com/netscaler/netscaler-k8s-ingress-controller/blob/master/deployment/baremetal/README.md). But, you cannot update these configurations at runtime without rebooting the Netscaler ingress controller pod. With ConfigMap support, you can update the configuration automatically while keeping the Netscaler ingress controller pod running. You do not need to restart the pod after the update.

## Supported environment variables in the Netscaler ingress controller

The values for the following environment variables in the Netscaler ingress controller can be specified in a ConfigMap.

- LOGLEVEL: Specifies the log levels to control the logs generated by the Netscaler ingress controller (debug, info, critical, and so on). The default value is `info`.

- NS_HTTP2_SERVER_SIDE: Enables HTTP2 for Netscaler service group configurations with possible values as ON or OFF.

- NS_PROTOCOL: Specifies the protocol to establish the ADC session (HTTP/HTTPS). The default value is `http`.

- NS_PORT: Specifies the port to establish a session. The default value is `80`.

- NS_COOKIE_VERSION: Specifies the persistence cookie version (0 or 1). The default value is `0`.

- NS_DNS_NAMESERVER: Enables adding DNS nameservers on Netscaler VPX.

- POD_IPS_FOR_SERVICEGROUP_MEMBERS: Specifies to add the IP address of the pod and port as service group members instead of `NodeIP` and `NodePort` while configuring services of type `LoadBalancer` or `NodePort` on an external tier-1 Netscaler.

- IGNORE_NODE_EXTERNAL_IP: Specifies to ignore an external IP address and add an internal IP address for NodeIP while configuring NodeIP for services of type `LoadBalancer` or `NodePort` on an external tier-1 Netscaler.

- FRONTEND_HTTP_PROFILE: Sets the HTTP options for the front-end virtual server (client plane), unless overridden by the `ingress.citrix.com/frontend-httpprofile` smart annotation in the ingress definition.

- FRONTEND_TCP_PROFILE: Sets the TCP options for the front-end virtual server (client side), unless overridden by the `ingress.citrix.com/frontend-tcpprofile` smart annotation in the ingress definition.

- FRONTEND_SSL_PROFILE: Sets the SSL options for the front-end virtual server (client side) unless overridden by the `ingress.citrix.com/frontend-sslprofile` smart annotation in the ingress definition.

- JSONLOG: Set this argument to true if log messages are required in JSON format.

- NS_ADNS_IPS: Enables configuring Netscaler as an ADNS server.

For more information about profile environment variables (FRONTEND_HTTP_PROFILE, FRONTEND_TCP_PROFILE, and FRONTEND_SSL_PROFILE), see [Configure HTTP, TCP, or SSL profiles on Netscaler](https://developer-docs.citrix.com/projects/citrix-k8s-ingress-controller/en/latest/configure/profiles/).

**Note:**
This is an initial version of the ConfigMap support and currently supports only a few parameters. Earlier, these parameters were configurable through environment variables except the `NS_HTTP2_SERVER_SIDE` parameter.

## Configuring ConfigMap support for the Netscaler ingress controller

This example shows how to create a ConfigMap and apply the ConfigMap to the Netscaler ingress controller. It also shows how to reapply the ConfigMap after you make changes. You can also optionally delete the changes.

Perform the following to configure ConfigMap support for the Netscaler ingress controller.

1. Create a YAML file `cic-configmap.yaml` with the required key-value pairs in the ConfigMap.

        apiVersion: v1
        kind: ConfigMap
        metadata:
          name: cic-configmap
          labels:
            app: citrix-ingress-controller
        data:
          LOGLEVEL: 'info'
          NS_PROTOCOL: 'http'
          NS_PORT: '80'
          NS_COOKIE_VERSION: '0'
          NS_HTTP2_SERVER_SIDE: 'ON'
          

2. Deploy the `cic-configmap.yaml` using the following command.

        kubectl create -f cic-configmap.yaml

3. Edit the `cic.yaml` file for deploying the Netscaler ingress controller as a stand-alone pod and specify the following:

        Args:
            - --configmap
                default/cic-configmap
  
    **Note:** It is mandatory to specify the namespace. If the namespace is not specified, ConfigMap is not considered.
    
    Following is a sample YAML file for deploying the Netscaler ingress controller with the ConfigMap configuration. For the complete YAML file, see [citrix-k8s-ingress-controller.yaml](https://github.com/netscaler/netscaler-k8s-ingress-controller/blob/master/deployment/baremetal/citrix-k8s-ingress-controller.yaml).
  

        apiVersion: apps/v1
        kind: Deployment
        metadata:
          name: cic-k8s-ingress-controller
        spec:
            selector:
              matchLabels:
                app: cic-k8s-ingress-controller
            replicas: 1
            template:
              metadata:
                name: cic-k8s-ingress-controller
                labels:
                  app: cic-k8s-ingress-controller
              annotations:
              spec: 
                serviceAccountName: cic-k8s-role
                containers:
                - name: cic-k8s-ingress-controller
                  image: "quay.io/netscaler/netscaler-k8s-ingress-controller:2.0.6"
                  env:
                  # Set NetScaler NSIP/SNIP, SNIP in case of HA (mgmt has to be enabled) 
                  - name: "NS_IP"
                    value: "x.x.x.x"
                  - name: "EULA"
                    value: "yes"
                  args:
                    - --ingress-classes
                      citrix
                    - --feature-node-watch
                      false
                    - --configmap
                      default/cic-configmap
                  imagePullPolicy: Always

4. Deploy the Netscaler ingress controller as a stand-alone pod by applying the YAML.

        kubectl apply -f cic.yaml

5. If you want to change the value of an environment variable, edit the values in the ConfigMap. In this example, the value of NS_HTTP2_SERVER_SIDE is changed to 'OFF'.

        apiVersion: v1
        kind: ConfigMap
        metadata:
          name: cic-configmap
          labels:
            app: citrix-ingress-controller
        data:
          LOGLEVEL: 'info'
          NS_PROTOCOL: 'http'
          NS_PORT: '80'
          NS_COOKIE_VERSION: '0'
          NS_HTTP2_SERVER_SIDE: 'OFF'

6. Reapply the ConfigMap using the following command.

        kubectl apply -f cic-configmap.yaml

7. (Optional) If you need to delete the ConfigMap, use the following command.

        kubectl delete -f cic-configmap.yaml

    When you delete the ConfigMap, the environment variable configuration falls back as per the following order of precedence:
    ConfigMap configuration > environment variable configuration > default

(Optional) In case, you want to define all keys in a ConfigMap as environment variables in the Netscaler ingress controller, use the following in the Netscaler ingress controller deployment YAML file.

        envFrom:
                - configMapRef: 
                  name: cic-configmap
